Project 1 Documentation
Benjamin Gilchrist

For this project I simulated a world using cellular automata, with several complex
systems interacting with each other. I put an emphasis on the natural world, especially
on living things.

The primary cell types involved are:
Grass (Light Green)
Forest (Dark Green)
Civilization (Gold)

Additional types are:
Dirt (Light Brown)
Rock (Grey)
Fauna (Dark Brown)
Water (Blue)
Wall (Black)
Growth (Mid Green)

While the exact rules which govern the cells' interactions are fairly complex,
the basic interactions are meant to go as follows:

Grass and Forest spread across dirt and stone and are self-sustainable.
If undeterred, they will cover the entire map. These exhibit unrelenting growth.

Civilization will spread across Grass and Forest, but turn nearby Grass
into Dirt and turn into Rock when there is not enough plant life near them to survive.
This causes them to leave Rocks in their wake in regular patterns, unlike the
organic appearance of everything else. This cell type is destructive and not self-sustainable.

Water will flow down and to the right and will not wrap around the screen, making
it the only cell type to prefer a certain direction over another, allowing
creeks or bays to be created. Since water is a source of life, it turns
dirt into grass, and when it comes in contact with the edge of a growing forest
(where the Growth cells are spawned, specifically), can spawn Fauna.

While Grass/Forest is meant to symbolize growth and Civilization is self-destructive,
Fauna is meant to be represent stability. It is still vulnerable to Civilization's
spread, but is self-sustaining and can stay present indefinitely in a field, body
of water, or forest. It additionally suspends the spread of Forests.
Fauna cells live and die rapidly as well, giving a sense of constant motion.

Wall cells do not have a symbolic representation, and have been included only for
fun. They will never change, and can be used to section areas off. They were given
a strong color of absolute black to show that it is a sort of meta cell type.

UI was made minimal with no typography to go along with the abstract minimal visual
style which cellular automata already possesses by nature. While without this guide
it may be initially unclear what the cell types are, I'm hoping they are intuitive
enough to prevent too much confusion.

The initial state of the cell map was chosen because when uninterrupted, it immediately
shows viewers the destructive nature of Civilization cells, as well as the growth
of Forest cells. It also immediately leaves very inorganic patterns of rock behind
the Civilization, hopefully hinting at the nature of the cells without needing words.

A light grey background was chosen to keep the spotlight on the grid itself, while
giving some contrast to the Wall cells.
